Hello!

Introduce self - english moved to Japan.

Technical content, see CPC4Ever magazine for more info

Game inspired by japanese games - japanese language references in game

Intro - limited to 64k graphical glitches.

Game intro, surreal theme to play down content.
Reason - Chibiko is the only vampire - so she has to do something exceptional

Sprite compiler - wrote myself, doesn't really reduce size unless vertical lines are the same - but it's fast!

Umbrella drink! not enough vampire references in the game - so had to add them to the intro!

Loading screen - explaining the plot!

-------------------------
level 1 -

backgrounds had to be very simple gradients, sprite drawing is slow, and I needed the speed for the bullets

entire game is written around the CPC's lack of sprites (hence bullets - which are not sprites)... vertical scrolling to take advantage of the raster color capability - used plus sprites to hide the mode 1 4 color limitation.


Boss 1

Game sprites can be anysize, but they can only 'clip' (go offscreen) if they are 24 pixels, the skull boss is made up of 6 24pixel wide sprites to allow this to work - because it never goes off the bottom of the screen, the fact the sprites are not 24pixels tall are not a problem.

This limitation no longer exists in episode 2 - sprites can be any size, provided they are square.

----------------------

Level 2
Level 2 is the first level to use complex moving sprites. everything in Chibiakumas has to work at 8 bits for speed and memory limitations, this made movement of bullets and enemies very simple, but with some extra code I could bend the rules for more complex enemies like the jumping rabbit.

In episode 1 this had to be done with machine code, Episode 2 has a new far more advanced "Animator" function, which makes for far less debugging.

Background of level2 was supposed to look like trees - couldn't do what I wanted because of limitations of game engine - episode 2 can do repeating 32 pixel sprites, which would allow me to do this better.

Boss 2
uses the new more complex movements - heat seeking kiss attack - soutpark spoof characters.
tail spells WTF - turns to hearts when hit - Zombichu likes being hurt!


---------------

level 3 - river
playing with raster colors for 'submersion effect'

Weapons reset each leve - wanted the game to be fun, didn't like games where losing a life lost your powerups

Chibi Akumas was always supposed to be two player (hence the plurality of the title), however I was worried that it would be to much to attempt it for the first game, as I may end up releasing nothing.

buggy fish!



level 3 - boss
wanted to mimic huge bosses on Nes/Gameboy, which used the 'tile layer' to fake a giant sprite, even though ChibiAkumas has not tile layer.
Sawblade is supposed to be haging off the head of a giant 'angler fish' where the light would be.

------------------

Level 4 - caves
using color switching like in megaman games - supposed to be defined by 'illuminating enemies'

first level with walls that hurt.

Big ghost had to be made up of 4 smaller sprites

game play was supposed to follow a journey with chibiko going from her castle to the source of the problem.

all the enemies have names - check out the website for info.

White spirits come and go, Dark spirits will circle for ever

Level 4 - vertical cave

Inspired by xenon 2 

the game engine doesn't really 'scroll' the enemies move in their own predefined direction, so the game can scroll just as easily vertically as horizontally - the only tricky bit is the background - and that the rastercolors do not work so well.

Coins in ep 1 don't do anything - they give an extra powerup in ep2

Levels do not have a map, each object comes on screen at a 'time' - saved memory.


-----------

Pre boss - note Necromancer does not say he's responsible, as far as he is concerned, Chibiko is the attacker who's come for him.

----------

Last boss battle - over 1000 bullets onscreen, used extra memory to increase onscreen bullets at same speed. 

Compiled sprite background.

First boss with a lifebar! only wrote the code at the last moment!

Couldn't make as many bullets onscreen as I wanted, or make them as big as I wanted - limitations!

Coffee time effect - it's coming next time!
---------------
End sequence!

The moral of the story! Chibiko is bad, she brought all her problems on herself!

Thanks for watching. Please check out CPC4eva (George Bachaelor)'s magazine, and continue to support my future projects - and others in retrogaming

This game took 6 months to create - but that was working pretty much every single day.

https://www.facebook.com/groups/1066160190075999/?ref=nf_target&fref=nf
